[TM] Chp3-1 Improve data loading instructions (#3300)
qgis/QGIS-Documentation: source/docs/training_manual/basic_map/vector_data.rst

city blocks.

.. _load_geopackage:

> |basic| |FA| Loading Vector Data From GeoPackage Database

Author: Why the plural?

> |basic| |FA| Loading Vector Data From GeoPackage Database

Reviewer: Whatever you like :-)

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Databases allow you to store a large volume of associated data in one file. You
may already be familiar with a database management system (DBMS) such as
Libreoffice Base or MS Access. GIS applications can also make use of databases.
GIS-specific DBMSes (such as PostGIS) have extra functions, because they need to
handle spatial data.

> The `GeoPackage <https://www.geopackage.org/>`_ open format is a database container that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `GeoPackage <https://www.geopackage.org/>`_ open format is a container that
```

allows you to store GIS data (layers) in a single file. Unlike the ESRI

> Shapefile format (e.g. the :file:`roads.shp` file you previously load that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shapefile format (e.g. the :file:`roads.shp` dataset you previously load that
```

contains only roads vector data), a single GeoPackage file can contain various

> data, vector and raster types, in different coordinate reference systems,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
data (both vector data and raster data) in different coordinate reference systems,
```

as well as tables without spatial information; all these features allow you to

> easily share data and avoid file duplication in your computer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
easily share data and avoid file duplication.
```

> In order to load a layer from a GeoPackage, you will first need to create the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to load a layer from a GeoPackage, you will first need to
```

> In order to load a layer from GeoPackage, you will first need to create the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to load a layer from a GeoPackage, you will first need to create the
```

> connection to the database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it:
```

Reviewer: Avoiding the "problem".

Author: @havatv you meant to replace "to the database" with "to it", right? Not replacing the whole line. Because now the sentence would be `In order to load a layer from a GeoPackage, you will first need to it:`

Reviewer: @DelazJ - right!  Sorry about the mess.  I have tried once more.

> connection to the database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connection to the container:
```

Author: Is gpkg not a db?

Reviewer: Both a container and a database. (From www.geopackage.org: `Since a GeoPackage is a database container, it supports direct use.`)
I think container is a slightly better term than just database for geopackage.

#. Click on the |dataSourceManager| :sup:`Open Data Source Manager` button.
#. On the left click on the |newGeoPackageLayer| :guilabel:`GeoPackage` tab.
#. Click on the :guilabel:`New` button and browse to the :file:`training_data.gpkg`
   file in the :file:`exercise_data` folder you have downloaded before.
#. Select the file and press :guilabel:`Open`. The file path is now added to the
   Geopackage connections list, and shown in the drop-down menu.

> From now, you can add any layer from this GeoPackage file to QGIS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now add any layer from this GeoPackage to QGIS.
```

Author: What I wanted to emphasize here with "from now" is that this connecting is set once for all; next time you open QGIS it's there.
With "you can now", it looks to me like if it was simply the next step in the procedure.

Reviewer: What about the revised proposal?

Reviewer 2: "This now enables you to"/"This now allows you to"?

> #. Click on :guilabel:`Connect` button.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click on the :guilabel:`Connect` button.
```

>    You should see in the central part of the window the list of all the layers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In the central part of the window you should now see the list of all the layers
```

>    contained in the GeoPackage file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   contained in the GeoPackage.
```

#. Select the :guilabel:`roads` layer and click on the :guilabel:`Add` button.

   .. image:: img/add_data_dialog_geopackage.png
      :align: center

   A :guilabel:`roads` layer is added to the :guilabel:`Layers` panel with

>    features displayed in the map canvas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   features displayed on the map canvas.
```

Author: I might confess that I'm a bit lost with the use of "**in** your map canvas" or "**on** your map" (see comment in answers file line 58)

Reviewer: Different things have different prepositions.  For canvas, I think on is to be preferred.  For map, in and on depends on the context, I think.

#. Click on :guilabel:`Close`.

> Congratulations! You have loaded the first layer from a GeoPackage file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Congratulations! You have loaded the first layer from a GeoPackage.
```

.. _backlink-vector-load-from-database-1:

|basic| |FA| Loading Vector Data From a SpatiaLite Database with the Browser
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

QGIS provides access to many other database formats. Like GeoPackage, the
SpatiaLite database format is an extension of the SQLite library. And adding

> the first time a layer from SpatiaLite provider follows the same rules as seen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a layer from a SpatiaLite provider follows the same rules as described
```

above: Create the connection --> Enable it --> Add the layer(s).

> We could apply these steps and add SpatiaLite data from our sample

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We could apply SpatiaLite data using that approach,
```

Author: I'm not sure I understand

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While this is one way to add SpatiaLite data to your map,
```

> data but let's explore another powerful feature of data loading in QGIS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but let's instead explore another powerful feature of data loading in QGIS:
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
let's explore another powerful way to add data:
```

the :guilabel:`Browser`.

> #. Click the icon |dataSourceManager| to open the :guilabel:`Data Source Manager`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#. Click the |dataSourceManager| icon to open the :guilabel:`Data Source Manager`
```

   window.
#. Click on the |fileOpen| :guilabel:`Browser` tab.
#. In this tab you can see all the storage disks connected to your computer

>    as well as entries for most of the tabs in the left. These allow quick access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   as well as entries for most of the other tabs. These allow quick access
```

Reviewer 2: Not sure either of these is clear enough. How about "entries for most data formats, including those in the left-hand toolbar"? Obviously, users can move that toolbar, so if there is a better name for it, great.

   to connected databases or folders.

   For example, click on the drop-down icon next to the |geoPackage|
   :guilabel:`GeoPackage` entry. You'll see the :file:`training-data.gpkg` file

>    we previously connected, and its layers if expanded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   we previously connected to (and its layers, if expanded).
```

#. Right-click the |spatialite| :guilabel:`SpatiaLite` entry and select
   :guilabel:`New Connection...`.
#. Navigate to the :file:`exercise_data` folder, select the :file:`landuse.sqlite`
   file and click :guilabel:`Open`.

>    Notice that a |dbSchema| :guilabel:`landuse.sqlite` collapsible entry has

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Notice that a |dbSchema| :guilabel:`landuse.sqlite` entry has
```

   been added under the :guilabel:`SpatiaLite` one.
#. Expand the |dbSchema| :guilabel:`landuse.sqlite` entry.
#. Double-click the |polygonLayer| :guilabel:`landuse` layer or select and

>    drag-and-drop it over the map canvas. A new layer is added to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   drag-and-drop it to the map canvas. A new layer is added to the
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   drag-and-drop it onto the map canvas. A new layer is added to the
```

>    :guilabel:`Layers` panel and its features are displayed in the map canvas.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :guilabel:`Layers` panel and its features are displayed on the map canvas.
```

   .. image:: img/spatialite_dialog_connected.png
      :align: center

   |

.. tip:: Enable the :guilabel:`Browser` panel in :menuselection:`View --> Panels -->`
  and use it to add your data. It's a handy shortcut for the :guilabel:`Data Source

>   Manager --> Browser` tab, with the same functionalities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Manager --> Browser` tab, with the same functionality.
```

> .. note:: Remember to save the map often! The map file doesn't contain any of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note:: Remember to save your project frequently! The project file doesn't contain any of
```

>    the data directly, but it remembers which layers you loaded into your map.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   the data itself, but it remembers which layers you loaded into your map.
```

.. _backlink-vector-load-more-data:

|moderate| |TY| Load More Vector Data
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Load the following datasets from the :file:`exercise_data` folder into your map

> using any of the methods previously shown:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
using any of the methods explained above:
```
